README.md, before:

<div align="center">

![Andromeda Logo](./assets/andromeda_logo.png)

[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v2.0%20adopted-ff69b4.svg)](code_of_conduct.md)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue)](License.txt)

</div>

# Andromeda: A Social Media data lake

## Introduction

### What is this repo?

This repo contains the main code of "Andromeda".

### What is the Andromeda?

It is an OSS application that will collect analytics data from YouTube, Google Ads
and Facebook and generate reports about it.

Andromeda allow:

  * [X] Connect to any relational database
  * [X] Pull data from all social platforms into PostgreSQL database
  * [X] Store a lifetime of insights and data across all channels

The idea on making Andromeda possible came by [Jellyfish Insights](http://jellyfishinsights.com/)

## Building and running

The instructions to setup this project can be seen [here](./how_to_setup.md)

## Contribute to Andromeda

The instruction on how to become a Andromeda contributor can be seen [here](./how_to_contribute.md)

Commit message:

Improving docs organization, Add how to run andromeda via docker container

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

![Andromeda Logo](./assets/andromeda_logo.png)

[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v2.0%20adopted-ff69b4.svg)](docs/code_of_conduct.md)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue)](License.txt)

</div>

# Andromeda: A Social Media data lake

## Introduction

### What is this repo?

This repo contains the main code of "Andromeda".

### What is the Andromeda?

It is an OSS application that will collect analytics data from YouTube, Google Ads
and Facebook and generate reports about it.

Andromeda allow:

  * [X] Connect to any relational database
  * [X] Pull data from all social platforms into PostgreSQL database
  * [X] Store a lifetime of insights and data across all channels

The idea on making Andromeda possible came by [Jellyfish Insights](http://jellyfishinsights.com/)

## Building and running

The instructions to setup this project can be seen [here](./docs/how_to_setup.md)

## Running via docker container

The instructions to setup this project via docker container can be seen [here](./docs/how_to_run_docker_container.md)

## Contribute to Andromeda

The instruction on how to become a Andromeda contributor can be seen [here](./docs/how_to_contribute.md)
